# marketing-data-analytics

Repo for developing Airflow projects to be deployed onto Astronomer

Jenkins folder: [marketing-data-analytics](https://master-3.jenkins.tredence_analytics.com/job/Cloud.Platforms/job/Big.Data/job/marketing-data-analytics/)

Astronomer UIs:
- Dev: [astro-dev.tredence_analytics.com/](https://astro-dev.tredence_analytics.com)
- Stg: [astro-stg.tredence_analytics.com/](https://astro-stg.tredence_analytics.com)
- Prd: [astro-prd.tredence_analytics.com/](https://astro-prd.tredence_analytics.com)

## Local Development

#### Requirements
* [Docker](https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/)
* [Astronomer CLI](https://www.astronomer.io/docs/cloud/stable/develop/cli-quickstart)

#### Start Local Airflow Deployment

Command | Description
--- | ---
`astro dev start` | Spins up a local airflow cluster using Docker
`astro dev stop` | Stops the running local cluster
`make test-ci` | Validates the deployment by ensure it builds successfully and can execute an `airflow` command (runs as part of the stage Jenkins pipeline)
`make clean` | Remove temporary cache files generated by Python.

#### Testing
The Airflow deployment is validated during the stage Jenkins build by running `make test-ci`, which builds the image and runs `airflow version`. If the command fails, there is likely an issue with the combination of Python dependencies in `requirements.txt`. To validate your deployment it is always recommended to run `astro dev start` to bring up the deployment locally. See the "Troubleshooting" section for information about how to debug if `astro dev start` fails to bring up your deployment.

#### Example DAGs
There are some DAGs in [dags/dag_examples_python/](dags/dag_examples_python) and [dags/dag_examples_yml/](dags/dag_examples_yml) that provide examples
to help you get started.

`dag_examples_yaml` contains YAML DAGs using the `low-code-dags` [YAML syntax](https://wiki.tredence_analytics.com/x/yN98Pg), and `dag_examples_python` contains standard Python DAGs (which import and call `low-code-dags` operators). These DAGs all reference source code in [src/](dags/src)

Python DAGs placed in the `dags/` directory will automatically appear in the Airflow UI, while YAML DAGs require a boilerplate script in `dags/` similar to [this](dags/generate_yml_dags.py).

More information on `low-code-dags` is available [here](https://wiki.tredence_analytics.com/x/o958Pg).

#### Troubleshooting

If you encounter any problems browsing to the Airflow Admin UI you can see what's going on by running `docker ps`

```
$ docker ps
CONTAINER ID     IMAGE                                      CREATED                PORTS                    
289d8ee3afb8     local_87c07d/airflow:latest            16 seconds ago     0.0.0.0:8080->8080/tcp   
e9b22bde4aed     local_87c07d/airflow:latest            17 seconds ago                                      
58132f368ad2     postgres:12.2                          17 seconds ago     0.0.0.0:5432->5432/tcp   
```

Then you tail the logs with `docker logs -f 289d8ee3afb8` 

To purge the volumes and network, and rebuild the image, run `astro dev kill` instead of `astro dev stop`

## CI/CD

## Deployment

### Development

This Jenkins job is designed to be executed manually via the Jenkins user interface. It requires two parameters: `branch` and `release_name`. Please note that deployments from the master branch are not permitted, as development deployments are intended for testing purposes and should be initiated from a feature or development branch. The pipeline is configured to support deployments from any branch within the Git repository and to any deployment within your workspace. The target deployment must be specified in the release_name parameter field.

**Engineers are responsible for checking their code to the respective branch and deploying through jenkins pipeline provided.**

The development Jenkins pipeline can be seen in the Jenkins folder: [marketing-data-analytics](https://master-3.jenkins.tredence_analytics.com/job/Cloud.Platforms/job/Big.Data/job/marketing-data-analytics/)

### Stage

This will execute via a webhook sent on a commit to the `master` branch.  No other branches will trigger automated deployments.  There are currently no parameters needed for this job.

The stage Jenkins pipeline can be seen in the Jenkins folder: [marketing-data-analytics](https://master-3.jenkins.tredence_analytics.com/job/Cloud.Platforms/job/Big.Data/job/marketing-data-analytics/)

### Production

This job will be executed **manually** from the Jenkins UI.  There is one parameter `jenkinsBuildNumber` which is the build number of the stage deployment to use to promote to production.

The production Jenkins pipeline can be seen in the Jenkins folder: [marketing-data-analytics](https://master-3.jenkins.tredence_analytics.com/job/Cloud.Platforms/job/Big.Data/job/marketing-data-analytics/)

To trigger a production deployment, find the pipeline named `marketing-data-analytics-prd`, then click "Build with parameters", and supply the `jenkinsBuildNumber` of the stage built you want to promote to production.

## UAT

Testing your DAGs against production data is possible using the UAT pattern. If you don't already have a UAT Airflow deployment, send a request to the #adp-astro Slack channel for the ADP Platform team to provision one for you. Provisioning will also include two Jenkins pipelines, one for stage UAT and one for production UAT. If you already have a UAT deployment, you will have corresponding Jenkinsfiles (`Jenkinsfile.uat` and `Jenkinsfile.Prd.uat`) that are used for CI/CD. The CI/CD pattern is the same as non-UAT environments, except **the deployments are built from the `uat` Git branch** (automatic deploy to stage on commits to the `uat` branch, and manual promotion to production).

## Upgrading Your Airflow Version

To upgrade your Airflow version simply change the version tag in the first line of `Dockerfile`. For a list of supported image tags, see [the README section of adp-airflow](https://git.tredence_analytics.com/dpe/adp-airflow-image). **Please note, you no longer need to initialize the version upgrade process in the Astronomer UI, as described [here](https://docs.astronomer.io/software/manage-airflow-versions/)**. This is now handled automatically as part of your Jenkins pipeline for stage and production.
# market_data_analysis
